one moment okay excellent
hello everyone and welcome to the ipfs
weekly meeting this is a place where we
learned what's happening in our
community and the cool stuff that's
being built on top of IP FS so our
format is going to be a little different
today we are going to do announcements
last and we're going to start with our
two presentations it's nothing that's
changing of we have two presentations
today our first presentation is from VDS
and he'll talk about the okrs
and the second one is from Vaako santos
and he's going to talk about DHT stress
test so why don't we begin with Bobby so
let's begin
all right Thank You Portia cool so let
me share my screen so that I can show
you some nice can you see my keynote app
yeah by the way I'm trying this like
multi screen setup so if you see my face
just like looking at multiple places
it's very destructive I'm just looking
at multiple screens cool so hi everyone
welcome to the ipfs project where map
soft launch we are really excited as I
because community to share this with you
all today and let me first start say
that like it has been a very long
journey I know everyone feels we have
been part of this project for quite some
time and thanks to everyone's
contribution thanks to everyone's effort
energy and thoughts we finally managed
to get a moment to synchronize over a
considerable amount of weeks and create
a document that we are excited to share
with
community so lots of websites everyone
that participated on these Road mapping
endeavor we everyone really appreciates
each other's contributions to it so I'll
try to be very brief so that we can have
the other presentation on this call
without eating on others callsign so
agenda is particular map what is the way
to happen after the soft lounge in Oh
everyone can contribute to planning cool
so without further ado I introduce you
to the fantastic first of its kind
beyond interplanetary the ipfs project
chrome app version zero 4.0
this segment is now live on the roadmap
repo so you can go to get out of comm
slash ipfs slash chrome app and you can
see all this stuff but there and this
Huffman packs many many great amazing
things first off the ipfs mission
statement it's the first time we as a
project go at least written down and
something that the working groups got
the chance to peer review and stand
behind so I'll just give ten seconds for
everyone to I got a chance to quench
through the mission statement here just
let that sink in
all right I see some smiley faces some
people nodding yes so as I the first
project we believe that all of
information on the Internet should be
uniquely and permanently content
addressed on a disputed peer web but
what does it mean like it's a pretty
bold statement and so we to make that
more tangible we impact that mission
segment into goals some people call them
visionary goals and you can see the list
here from package managers wash files so
as we look at the web and the list goes
on you can find a description for each
of these very very ambitious goals on
the ipfs project roadmap but after much
thought and consideration and because
like again this is like each of these
goals by itself is very large and very
ambitious we had to create a sorting
function to help us identify what would
be the ones that we should be focusing
on first to give the whole org a sense
of direction a sense of unified
direction rather than everyone trying to
do all the things at the same time until
after the design of the third function
we come up to what we call the 2019
priorities so these top five priorities
basically are going to be the things
that we are going to focus really hard
on top 19 so you will see other working
groups were maps reflecting much of what
is described here the everything else
that you see here the remaining goals
are 20 20 plus priorities so we are not
discarding them we're not dropping them
but actually by focusing on these
priorities really hard and getting them
done we will be building the foundation
like leveling up the baseline that the
bar that then will enable us into the
future the following years to nail down
the remaining goals so what are these
priorities sir first starts with
supporting package managers package
managers are one of the top use cases
for ipfs it is one multiple package
management communities have been part of
the project since the beginning and
being part of our channels we have
multiple examples of iku
can be ipfs working for pachyderm
energies such as Jax if we use for the
NGO ipfs development or until Navi fest
which we are starting to use for
fetching dependencies for the Jessica
fest project but there are many many
other use cases one of the reasons why
it's so interesting to prospective
energies is because package managers
have to move a lot of code around until
IP passed by itself gives a lot of like
interesting properties from like just
other together the codes being able to
fetch the call from close machines and
make it work offline and also attracts a
whole set of developers from multiple
language communities that will make the
project even more interesting the next
priority is transferring large file data
sets a DFS designer phone data file
system so it is a file system and so we
want to focus and make sure that we
build the the tool change the the
libraries the the examples that we nail
the stories that like will enable users
to transfer files in a very simple way
next up we have building the
decentralized web something that we have
been putting a lot of energy into and we
want to even put more in 1219 basically
create the framework the library that
will enable an explosion of the civilian
applications to appear in 2010 and
Beyond and of course last but not the
least the two other objectives are
supporting party growth so there is a
lot of builders on top of a TFS today
and so we have been asking getting
feedback trying to understand better
their needs and priorities and how IPS
is part of the critical path and we are
trying to make sure we hear all about
those requests and we prioritize them
accordingly to what is our capacity so
that we can empower and enable all of
those users and then building foundation
for future goals so this takes me back
to what I said in the beginning which is
by really focusing really hard on these
tough travel priorities and some things
extra we actually prepare a way better
foundation for all of the other future
goals that we have for the project so
this top five labelled priorities are
reflected on the working group ro Maps
each working group got their own roadmap
and so you can directly check in with
working group on like what they are
planning to do what is their progress
and and like talk with them to see if
there is something that you believe
should be present that there or
represented there and it's not or yeah
just learn what is the direction overall
but like kind of like reading all of
these working real world maps is hard
like those are like also long documents
the row map itself is a long document so
what we prepared for you it's kind of
like a distilled version of all of the
goals that are present on these row maps
that we are describing them as ethics
until there are eight epochs in total
the first one is that we want to get the
reference implementations to become
production ready and this basically
means that like the implementations will
become reliable for businesses to trust
running it them in production and like
relying on it to to run their businesses
to run their projects to run their
products the reality is actually this is
already happening like there's already
applications out there that I use like a
festival every day and they rely on it
although we have only really savvy first
alpha but we want those 19 to be the
year where we invested in the more
energy so that the tooling the debugging
the support is there the API completion
etc so that like those users can feel
even more empowered and a whole new wave
of users can I jump into the project and
start relying on it as well second
related to the top priority we want to
support package managers to enter into
the web we want to kick off a working
group to like own this set of tasks and
we want to make sure that the
implementations meet the needs the
scalability and performance needs for
these use cases to like be efficient to
exist except skilled a Beaver's network
as we get more and more use cases kneel
down and as we get more users in we need
to make sure that IP % work is capable
of scaling we with that demand and so
not only we want to make sure that that
because network skills but also we want
to make it proven by tests by test best
that we can indeed
scale the network and we can deal with
flash crowds and so on creating the
platform to that entangles the mysteries
of developing adapt
again a lot of work has been put into
this already but we want to put even
more we want to be or to create the
toolkit that answers many of the
questions from our community on how to
build these real applications and it we
have answers to too many of those
questions like how to transfer state
between clients how to identify a user
how to give some permission to some
piece of content or to edit a piece of
content etc so why not work they're also
big abate we are going to again as the
first activist conference this is a very
big very big thing we have done multiple
events in the past but like we are
getting a conference to get the
community all together and I have to get
everyone to share their updates this is
going to be a conference for that press
community for the builders on top of us
and it's going to happen in the Lisbon
in June I believe the dates are almost
like finalized but it's something like
the 2nd of June so make points for that
and come to Lisbon in the summer which
is really nice then everyone gets a
simple way to have F share retrieve
persist files on the websites on a TV
network again this is like really
basically like understanding what are
what is blocking the users from like
jumping WS network and using a
day-to-day tool to share that files to
share in - Evan share files and so
there's a lot of work here as well seven
we got a lot of feedback from users and
in which like they want to see more
testing more benchmarks more performance
optimizations like they will have ipfs
they want to rely on it but like they
want to be sure that like IP fest will
be able to deal with their requirements
with the amount of data that they are
transferring every day and so will also
put a big focus on that and last but not
the least we want to support the IP
address the growing ipfs community today
we are more than 3700 contributors or at
least like 3700 people that contributed
at least once to the project in some
form either by poor request review or
research contribution or killed commit
this doesn't count
all the builders of about capacity just
like people that touch directly our
repos so if you can't with the whole our
Jericho system it's actually a large so
we want to improve documentation a big
thing that is coming 2019 is proto
school so I can online Academy to learn
web so yeah stay tuned for that so yeah
there was the Rome app the document is
live you can go again to IP fast
sorry get out comm such a PFS washroom
app and read it out there like it's to
give up repo you can open issues with
questions you can submit pull requests
to fix typos or like to make suggestions
just go a while review it give us
feedback what is happening after now
that we have opened IVFs project roadmap
for the first time well we are doing
self launch right back so it's happening
here we are sharing with you all
presented on this weekly ok check then
yes we not only push that because
project map to the repo we also pushed
each working group map to the repo so
you can also give feedback to the
working groups directly so check check
there as well and now we are looking
forward to hear from everyone in the
community to give us feedback to review
it to see what's missing to like ask us
stuff that we like check our assumptions
and and help us like drive the papers
project or map for impression 0.42
actually version 1 so that we can do a
big launch early in January so that's it
like we now want how your help like we
want your reviews one to your feedback
so that we can prepare a big launch and
tell the whole world that the first
project the biggest project as a road
map and that people cannot use it as a
reference point for their own planning
so yeah version 1.0 the my map happening
launching early in January we'll do like
a blog post and I call the fence fair so
that's like we are doing this
announcement here it is actually a talk
it is actually recorded and a wife
streaming but like will make sure like
to make even a bigger wave when
generally arrives so how can you
contribute to planning again the the
pull requests are open for the working
group low Maps you can just go there and
comment directly give us feedback
it's really
really welcome the same thing for like
our icky arts planning for next quarter
so as it is tradition we always do open
okay our planning that means that like
the working groups are now using the
room map to kind of like set direction
for next quarter set goals for next
quarter and they have these open threads
where they're members of the working
group and anyone else that as feedback
suggestions requests can go to that trap
and propose suggestions for goals on
next quarter of course like it's not
just because proposing a goal that like
that gets like injected into the the
goal though the list of goals for next
quarter but but like they it will there
are multiple iterations up and over
those four requests in which then people
try to call s and they defy one of the
things that are most important and
actually a to one exporter and then
there's a last pass I could review that
everyone can check in and see if they
agree with the the objectives and key
results that are set for next quarter
and and that basically that last pass as
the last review is happening this
Wednesday so I actually super close
right back so we have this open call
that is happening Wednesday starts at
5:00 p.m. OTC it's going to be very long
call but like you don't need to watch
all of it or you can always like just
participate on the the sections that you
are most interested in and you can
listening to the room to the okay arts
presentation by so yeah this was like my
super quick presentation of my PFS
project on maps just like to get it out
there I really looking forward to hear
all your thoughts and I can receive all
your questions thank you for your
attention
thank you for being a really awesome
community and for contributing to the
project it is really amazing to work
with you all and be part of like this is
super important project so yeah I'll
finish up here and perhaps I'll stop my
screen share and I'm not sure if we have
time for questions here maybe you can
take one for you you know come on thank
you very much for letting us know what's
ahead for ipfs is really exciting and we
don't have questions now however could
you put in a lei
where someone could like write an issue
or put in a PR and I'll also add that in
our YouTube video so thank you thank you
so let's go to our next presentation by
Paco Santos on stress testing DHT
let me just share my screen as well
[Music]
okay so
I'll be presenting to you today a proof
of concept for a tool to simulate stress
tests to our implementations of Kathy HD
using IPTV are you seeing my screen
yeah yes okay so I will just paste the
oh I can't go to the so we can see your
screen
yeah it's just to set to RL okay so all
that close this
okay so
sorry first during this quarter two of
their main goals of the GSA PHP team was
to ever get you enabled in jessup FS as
well as to start working on a test bed
that enabled us to simulate large scale
tests so in one side we wanted to
guarantee that the HT was good enough to
be enabled in Jessica fest and in the
other point of view for the test bed we
wanted to have a proof of concept of how
we would test DHD before going into and
technical aspects myself Jacob and Cole
we host testbed weekly sync every
Tuesday at 6 p.m.
Lisbon time if you have some ideas or
you want to contribute or know what we
are doing just to welcome you are
welcome to a period okay so starting in
the news IPTV HD chest so the main goals
of the simulations is to test two
different workloads through the use of
seven different parameters first we we
can test the challenges to look at
workload that time is to test the HT
with frequent beers being connected and
disconnected through the network while
the lookup intensive workloads aims to
test the network while putting and
carrying a lot of data so requirements
are produced it's just to have installed
IP to be as well as yes ffs and go at
the fest CLR just when fing important
Jessup FS has not yet DHT we are merged
so if you want to test with just a ref s
you should use this PR in here okay so
we have two two different comments with
the first one new simulation while the
second one is statistics the simulation
creates a JSON file with the results
that we can observe with the statistics
however the simulation also ends the
statistics in yen so we basically just
want to use the simulation okay so I
will Jam you now to this I will start by
showing you the helping menu
okay just bring the other one
I'll put this one running because it
will take a while while I explain the
other end so okay in the simulation
commands we basically pass the parameter
simulation to to the tool and we can
basically decide what implementation we
want to use if we want to use at the
first go implementation or just at the
first the number of notes that we want
to start the network the number of
iterations that we want to put and get
data into the DHT the lookup factor
which basically consists on the key
replications for the number of nodes
there is if we have five nodes and look
lookup factor of two we'll have ten
different cues available and basically
we generate a random key for it for each
into iteration and we will use it to put
a random value in the DHT and we'll use
it afterwards as well to get that data
from the HT and finally you we can also
use the churn factor which is the number
of nodes that we will disconnect and
connect from the network per second so
as you can check in my other tab I ran
the simulation with five nodes and we
with a shunt factor of when nodes per
second I ran it in the debug in debug
node debug mode so as we can see the
testbed was created represents a list
and we started each one of the nodes
meanwhile the it will take some time but
surely it will finish soon so maybe
while this is being running I can
continue so for now we really wanted to
check if the J's implementation had a
similar behavior to go on this is like
the primary goal of this tool and then
in the next quarter we really aim to
give a step forward and we want to get
this work in
the testbed effort that we have also
been making and we aim to fo a to
analyze the data that we obtained from
these tests which we currently do not
and when we have these results we also
want to F plans on out we should improve
the DHT in order to improve the these
results so I have here the results now
as you can see this is the final
analysis and it also was created a JSON
file with this for further analysis
so we basically ran two hundred
iterations with five notes we no caption
factor of two in the shown factor of one
so for the put comments in the DHT we
got a round-trip time of 278
milliseconds on average and we have just
six file lots of line boots which
basically were due to we selected a
random pair to put data but that random
beer will gotta fine in the process
while in the get part of this we add the
round-trip time of 270 milliseconds on
average failed off line seven and this
one which is like probably one of the
most important metrics right now we and
we expected that we would get the most
recent value that we put in the DHT but
in 28 of our cases we got a previous
value instead of the most recent one so
our goals with this tool is also to have
more parameters that we we can add as
well as get more metrics from these
simulations we we have been also
discussing with John yes I always should
add more things what we should have and
also what are the results that we will
aim to get I've been reading some some
papers that he recommended me
and for now tits this is what we thought
that would be the most important factors
so wrapping up your feedback would be
awesome please reach me out if you have
suggestions or open issues in the repo
if you prefer it would be really helpful
to have your inputs and that's it for me
I don't know if we have any time for
questions or comments
thank you very thank you very much
it is almost 6:30 so we have time for
we'll do two questions so if you have a
question please put it in the chat box
and we are going to start with jadi
crunch johnny crush yeah so my question
was as a remember kettle Emma DHT
actually has a idea buckets K buckets so
is there a way of creating the options
as far as the number of buckets to use
now there is no there is no option for
that but as we improved our tool at
least for the testbed one of the things
that we want to get is to have with the
different configurations of the lipid to
be in each demon and afterwards we can
have different tests with different
configurations for the cattle HT we
currently support it in the laboratory
site but as we are not using yet lipid
freedom and we are using - yes ffs one
or the guide the first one we don't have
from that perspective yet the
configurations to make that possible but
will be a next step
some thank you do we have one more quick
question to put it in a chat
okay do we actually have a question for
the previous presentation for dahveed's
presentation
going once going twice alright so that
is the end of our oh I see at hand
Johnny crunch again so devide how about
so what if one of the plants as far as
commercial partners for ipfs so I don't
think I was actually on the road maps so
right now is it really very much still
like a open source development community
or is there a road map for commercial
partners so the remember like really
contemplates like the plans of the apes'
project the goals and equities project
is trying to achieve and now so we try
to acknowledge it that build that isn't
about PFS some of them might run in
businesses on top of like the protocol
and so we want to make sure that like a
DFS deploys like the features that those
partners need to in order for them to be
successful
of course we if it falls within the
scope what we even the the objectives
are ipfs it is the thing that we have
opened as a channel like we are still
like getting more feedback like we
welcome like any partner to reach out to
us and tell us what they need like what
are the challenges what what are the
bottlenecks what are the issues that
they are seeing and and like work with
us to make sure like we can meet those
needs like that we can like ship those
like see those features and so like we
we are super interested in that
information as for I don't know if there
was like an another question in your
question about us if ipfs is going ffs
the project is going to develop any
commercial product instead of 19 like
that because the project itself there is
no plan internally to do that like we
will continue focusing on the
infrastructure on the protocol and
making sure that we work closely with
our users to to get the things out there
like really enable them the users build
those products build those applications
awesome with that we will conclude our
call but I want to give a thanks to
Vasco thank you very much for your
presentation Thank You Davi
I would also like to thank Terry for
taking notes and just a reminder that
minor / announcement that there won't be
a call next week or the week following
due to the holidays so I think Portia is
going to be updating the call invite for
everyone so keep keep your eyes peeled
for an IPS ipfs weekly call invite to
start up in January Thank You Terry
okay um that is it thank you everyone I
will see you in a new year